Properties, let's talk about so
add and multiply, you know,
they hold properties you can
call it add associative, right?
It doesn't matter how I
parenthesize the inner adds, right?
It's always gonna be same result.
So if I'm adding, one plus two plus three,
or one plus two plus three,
it's always gonna be the same.
Commutative, we can switch the arguments
around same answer, right?
We have identity, 0 here is our identity.
It doesn't, because it's commutative
I put it in left to right.
And, just gives me my value back.
And, multiply distributes over
addition which is, need to know.
But this is just an example of some
like actual calculation function but
we're gonna be running our entire program
in terms of these calculation functions.
And they will indeed hold a lot of
these properties which end up being
extremely valuable as you
build up a giant program.
And you wanna know how to
maintain flexibility while still
providing all the pieces to compose,
essentially gives you a rule set around
composition, which is very valuable.
So this is the kinda stuff
we're gonna be reading today.
You're welcome to stand up and
leave right now if you'd like.
[LAUGH]
So we'll learn how to do this in a minute,
but this is not too far off from that,
right?
And indeed all these hot properties and
contracts, they come along with them.
So let's get into our
first coding adventure.
We're gonna have some fun here for
a second.
The reason we're doing this right off
the bat is I was like yeah, functions.
Yeah, we're gonna program with functions,
functions take one input and give you one
output and immediately have two inputs.
[LAUGH] So what does that mean?
So let's go out ahead and
play with inputs for a second.
So, I can actually say, why don't we write
a function that takes all of it at once.
We'll call it, toPair right?
So instead of we can say this function,
right, where we destructure an array.
And I call it like this, 1,
2 is the same as this function,
exactly like we can show that
giving a pair as a single
argument is the same as
giving multiple arguments.
So we can show that by making
a proof where we actually provide
the transformation to and
from the same function.
So, say we take this function f.
And we're gonna take in two arguments,
right x and y.
And what we're gonna do is call add(x, y).
And instead,
we're actually gonna take in a pair.
Cool, so we can say, F.
So I can take any function
of two arguments and
turn it into a function that takes a pair
and then still calls that function.
So let's try it down here.
Don't worry if you're not fully
understanding everything here,
I just wanna kinda show you that we
can get to play with these arguments
many ways and it's gonna be
valuable in your FP adventures.
So now I can call two pair on ad, and
we'll call that with like, 1 or 2 here.
So the result is that
we'll log the result.
[BLANK AUDIO] Cool it's 3 it works.
How about from pair,
can we go the other way can we
recover our function originally?
We sure can, we'll take one at a time and
we'll just turn it into a pair this way.
I'll say fromPair,
cool, so let's try that
fromPair around the two pair.
Here we go, we turned it into
a function that takes a pair and
we turn it back into a function
that takes each argument at once.
So let's give it each argument,
there we go, we still get to 3.
All right, so
in a way since we just proved that taking
two separate arguments x and
y is the exact same thing is
isomorphic to the function
that takes a pair array,
we could just do stuff like, call args.
And we can start to play around with the
definitions of our functions because we
know they're equivalent.
So in that same vein, just for
fancies, let's do flip.
[LAUGH] So, does anybody have any
questions on two pair before I move on?
It's not that serious.
[LAUGH] Let's try flip.
So we're gonna take f takes, x and y.
And we're actually gonna say no,
it's gonna take y and x.
[LAUGH]
It's like messing around with
people's like Etsy host.
And flip, we can flip back and forth,
I'm not gonna go through the other side.
But why don't we add a terrible
example it's commutative.
It doesn't even change
the change the [LAUGH] result.
But anyway, [LAUGH] split bad.
We'll call 1, 3 and we'll still get 4 even
though we flipped the arguments around.
But that's kinda fun,
it took a function and
returned the function back that
flip the arguments around.
And we can right unflip and
it'll flip them back around and
they'll prove the isomorphism that those
two functions are actually equivalent.
I know that this is
the same function as that.
Doesn't matter about the argument order,
it's just how you call it.
Okay, so
finally we're gonna get into currying.
So we can write a function called curry
that takes in a function and instead of
taking one or more arguments upfront,
we're gonna take one argument at a time.
We'll take our x, we'll take our y,
and then we'll call out f( x, y).
This is this kinda a bizarre thing to do.
So what's gonna happen here is,
we're gonna take a function called add.
We're gonna curry it, and
let's break this out so
we can see this a little bit better,
curried add.
What's gonna happen is I can say add1,
we'll call this increment.
So this is a function that takes an x and
then returns a new function waiting for
a y and
then it will actually call the function.
And let's just show
the increment actually works.
The extra hour y'all.
I'm gonna increment that doesn't
look right increment, there we go.
[LAUGH] All right, we should get 3.
Oops, no, we don't,
anybody see a problem here?
And a, thank you her we go.
So we get for
defining variables never defined variable.
All right, cool, so we get 3, and
so this function will just
increment any number, right?
If I pass it to four I should get a five,
terrific.
So what curry did was
allow me to give Add.
But I can give it a function or
an argument and it remembers it.
So then, it's just waiting for
it's y, it remembers its x.
So we can write an uncurry,
just like we did with the other functions,
so it takes both an x and a y upfront.
And then what we'll do is curry
our function that was curried
with the x and then the y.
So I just showed you a proof.
I can take add and
I can prove that I can turn it to and
from a curry without actually changing
the behavior of the function.
It's the equivalent function, it has all
the same data, it has the same inputs and
outputs.
So, what does that mean for us?
That means we can curry any function,
we can take any function of multiple
arguments, and
make it take one argument at a time.
Let's talk about why that's useful.
So let's go ahead and
just stick with add and
curry here for a second,
leave result here.
So one of my favorite things to
do the way I explain this is to
define things in terms of like,
let's say we have modulo.
And that takes an x and
a y and we'll do x modulo y,
and I never remember the order of this.
Let's just curry it right off the bat.
We'll just create this entire function and
if I say modulo 2 is my function,
so say isodd is mod 2.
What that's gonna do is preload
modulo with one of its arguments.
And then I have a function back
waiting for its second argument.
So I've kinda given x as 2,
and I get a new function back,
that looks a lot like this.
Oops, wow, what am I doing?
There we go, so if I have like 2,
y, I get 2 modulo y.
All right, now I can see my problem
I got the 2 in the wrong spot.
So, I don't have flip anymore.
[LAUGH] But let's just do it this way.
There we go add X.
Okay, cool so if I say is odd,
see if this works, and
I say 2, I get zero, so
that means it's false.
If I give it 3, I get 1,
that means it's true.
Hooray.